SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
Cigna Health and Life Insurance Co.
For - Barnard College
Choice Fund Open Access Plus HSA Plan
Effective - 01/01/2020
Selection of a Primary Care Provider - your plan may require or allow the designation of a primary care provider. You have the right to designate any primary care
provider who participates in the network and who is available to accept you or your family members. If your plan requires designation of a primary care provider,
Cigna may designate one for you until you make this designation. For information on how to select a primary care provider, and for a list of the participating primary
care providers, visit www.mycigna.com or contact customer service at the phone number listed on the back of your ID card. For children, you may designate a
pediatrician as the primary care provider.
Direct Access to Obstetricians and Gynecologists - You do not need prior authorization from the plan or from any other person (including a primary care provider)
in order to obtain access to obstetrical or gynecological care from a health care professional in our network who specializes in obstetrics or gynecology. The health
care professional, however, may be required to comply with certain procedures, including obtaining prior authorization for certain services, following a pre-approved
treatment plan, or procedures for making referrals. For a list of participating health care professionals who specialize in obstetrics or gynecology, visit
www.mycigna.com or contact customer service at the phone number listed on the back of your ID card.
A notice for Missouri residents required by RSMo 376.1199.6: This plan has purchased an optional rider to cover elective abortions. The enrollee has the right to
exclude, and not pay for, coverage for elective abortions if such coverage is contrary to the enrollee's moral, ethical or religious beliefs.
A notice for Texas residents per Tex. Ins. Code §1218.001 et.al.: This plan has purchased an optional rider to cover elective abortions. The enrollee has the right
to exclude from their plan, and not pay for, coverage for elective abortions.
Your coverage includes a health savings account that you can use to pay for eligible out-of-pocket expenses.
Plan Highlights In-Network Out-of-Network
Lifetime Maximum Unlimited Unlimited
Plan Coinsurance Your plan pays 80% Your plan pays 60%
Maximum Reimbursable Charge Not Applicable 300%
Individual: $1,500 Individual: $2,000
Calendar Year Deductible
Family: $3,000 Family: $4,000
 Only the amount you pay for in-network covered expenses counts towards your in-network deductible. Only the amount you pay for out-of-network covered
expenses counts towards both your in-network and out-of-network deductibles.
 Plan deductible always applies before any copay or coinsurance.
 All eligible family members contribute towards the family plan deductible. Once the family deductible has been met, the plan will pay each eligible family
member's covered expenses based on the coinsurance level specified by the plan.
 This plan includes a combined Medical/Pharmacy plan deductible.
Note: Services where plan deductible applies are noted with a caret (^).
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 1 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Plan Highlights In-Network Out-of-Network
Individual: $3,500 Individual: $6,250
Calendar Year Out-of-Pocket Maximum
Family: $6,850 Family: $12,500
 Only the amount you pay for in-network covered expenses counts toward your in-network out-of-pocket maximum. Only the amount you pay for out-of-
network covered expenses counts toward both your in-network and out-of-network out-of-pocket maximums.
 Plan deductible contributes towards your out-of-pocket maximum.
 All copays and benefit deductibles contribute towards your out-of-pocket maximum.
 Mental Health and Substance Use Disorder covered expenses contribute towards your out-of-pocket maximum.
 All eligible family members contribute towards the family out-of-pocket maximum. Once the family out-of-pocket maximum has been met, the plan will pay
each eligible family member's covered expenses at 100%.
 This plan includes a combined Medical/Pharmacy out-of-pocket maximum.
Benefit In-Network Out-of-Network
Physician Services - Office Visits
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Physician Office Visit – Primary Care Physician (PCP)/Specialist
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
NOTE: Obstetrician and Gynecologist (OB/GYN) visits are subject to either the PCP or Specialist cost share depending on how the provider contracts with Cigna (i.e.
as PCP or as Specialist).
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Surgery Performed in Physician’s Office
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Allergy Treatment/Injections Performed in Physician's Office
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Allergy Serum
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
 Dispensed by the physician in the office
After the plan deductible is met,
Cigna Telehealth Connection Services Not Covered
your plan pays 80%
 Includes charges for the delivery of medical and health-related consultations via secure telecommunications technologies, telephones and internet only when
delivered by contracted medical telehealth providers (see details on myCigna.com)
 Telehealth services rendered by providers that are not contracted medical telehealth providers (as described on myCigna.com) are covered at the same
benefit level as the same services would be if rendered in-person.
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 2 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Benefit In-Network Out-of-Network
Preventive Care
Preventive Care After the plan deductible is met,
Plan pays 100%
Birth through age 18 your plan pays 70%
After the plan deductible is met,
Plan pays 100%
Ages 19 and older your plan pays 70%
 Includes coverage of additional services, such as urinalysis, EKG, and other laboratory tests, supplementing the standard Preventive Care benefit when
billed as part of office visit.
Immunizations After the plan deductible is met,
Plan pays 100%
Birth through age 18 your plan pays 70%
After the plan deductible is met,
Ages 19 and older Plan pays 100%
your plan pays 70%
Mammogram, PAP, and PSA Tests Plan pays 100% Plan pays based on place of service.
 Coverage includes the associated Preventive Outpatient Professional Services.
 Diagnostic-related services are covered at the same level of benefits as other x-ray and lab services, based on place of service.
Inpatient
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Inpatient Hospital Facility Services
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
Semi-Private Room: In-Network: Limited to the semi-private negotiated rate / Out-of-Network: Limited to semi-private rate
Private Room: In-Network: Limited to the semi-private negotiated rate / Out-of-Network: Limited to semi-private rate
Special Care Units (Intensive Care Unit (ICU), Critical Care Unit (CCU)): In-Network: Limited to the negotiated rate / Out-of-Network: Limited to ICU/CCU daily
room rate
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Inpatient Hospital Physician’s Visit/Consultation
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
Inpatient Professional Services
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
 For services performed by Surgeons, Radiologists, Pathologists
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
and Anesthesiologists
Outpatient
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Outpatient Facility Services
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
Outpatient Professional Services
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
 For services performed by Surgeons, Radiologists, Pathologists
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
and Anesthesiologists
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 3 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Benefit In-Network Out-of-Network
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Short-Term Rehabilitation - PCP
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Short-Term Rehabilitation - Specialist
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
Calendar Year Maximums:
 Pulmonary Rehabilitation, Cognitive Therapy, Physical Therapy, Speech Therapy and Occupational Therapy – 90 days
 Limits are not applicable to mental health conditions for Physical, Speech and Occupational Therapies.
Note: Therapy days, provided as part of an approved Home Health Care plan, accumulate to the applicable outpatient short term rehab therapy maximum.
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Chiropractic Care - PCP
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Chiropractic Care - Specialist
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
Calendar Year Maximum:
 Chiropractic Care - Unlimited days
Note: Therapy days, provided as part of an approved Home Health Care plan, accumulate to the applicable outpatient short term rehab therapy maximum.
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Cardiac Rehabilitation - PCP
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Cardiac Rehabilitation - Specialist
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
Calendar Year Maximum:
 Cardiac Rehabilitation – 36 days
Note: Therapy days, provided as part of an approved Home Health Care plan, accumulate to the applicable outpatient short term rehab therapy maximum.
Other Health Care Facilities/Services
Home Health Care After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
(includes outpatient private duty nursing subject to medical necessity) your plan pays 80% your plan pays 80%
 60 days maximum per Calendar Year (The limit is not applicable to mental health and substance use disorder conditions.)
 16 hour maximum per day
Skilled Nursing Facility, Rehabilitation Hospital, Sub-Acute Facilities After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
 60 days maximum per Calendar Year your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
Durable Medical Equipment After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
 Unlimited maximum per Calendar Year your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
Breast Feeding Equipment and Supplies
 Limited to the rental of one breast pump per birth as ordered or After the plan deductible is met,
Your plan pays 100%
prescribed by a physician your plan pays 70%
 Includes related supplies
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 4 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Benefit In-Network Out-of-Network
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
External Prosthetic Appliances (EPA)
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
 Unlimited maximum per Calendar Year
Routine Foot Disorders Not Covered Not Covered
Note: Services associated with foot care for diabetes and peripheral vascular disease are covered when approved as medically necessary.
After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
Hearing Aid
your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
 Maximum of 2 devices per 36 months
 Includes testing and fitting of hearing aid devices at Physician Office Visit cost share.
Medical Specialty Drugs
Inpatient
 This benefit applies to the cost of the Infusion Therapy drugs After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
administered in an Inpatient Facility. This benefit does not cover your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
the related Facility or Professional charges.
Outpatient Facility Services
 This benefit applies to the cost of the Infusion Therapy drugs After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
administered in an Outpatient Facility. This benefit does not cover your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
the related Facility or Professional charges.
Physician's Office
 This benefit applies to the cost of targeted Infusion Therapy drugs After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
administered in the Physician’s Office. This benefit does not cover your plan pays 80% your plan pays 60%
the related Office Visit or Professional charges.
Home
 This benefit applies to the cost of targeted Infusion Therapy drugs After the plan deductible is met, After the plan deductible is met,
administered in the patient’s home. This benefit does not cover the your plan pays 80% your plan pays 75%
related Professional charges.
Place of Service - your plan pays based on where you receive services
Note: Services where plan deductible applies are noted with a caret (^).
Emergency Room/ Urgent Care
Physician's Office Independent Lab Outpatient Facility
Facility
Benefit
Out-of- Out-of- Out-of- Out-of-
In-Network In-Network In-Network In-Network
Network Network Network Network
Covered same Covered same
as plan's as plan's
Plan pays 100% Plan pays 70% Plan pays 80% Plan pays 60% Plan pays 80% Plan pays 60%
Laboratory Emergency Emergency
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
Room/Urgent Room/Urgent
Care Services Care Services
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 5 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Place of Service - your plan pays based on where you receive services
Note: Services where plan deductible applies are noted with a caret (^).
Emergency Room/ Urgent Care
Physician's Office Independent Lab Outpatient Facility
Facility
Benefit
Out-of- Out-of- Out-of- Out-of-
In-Network In-Network In-Network In-Network
Network Network Network Network
Covered same Covered same
as plan's as plan's
Plan pays 100% Plan pays 70% Plan pays 80% Plan pays 60%
Radiology Not Applicable Not Applicable Emergency Emergency
^ ^ ^ ^
Room/Urgent Room/Urgent
Care Services Care Services
Covered same Covered same
Covered same Covered same
Advanced as plan's as plan's
Plan pays 100% Plan pays 70% as plan's as plan's
Radiology Not Applicable Not Applicable Emergency Emergency
^ ^ Outpatient Outpatient
Imaging Room/Urgent Room/Urgent
Facility Services Facility Services
Care Services Care Services
Advanced Radiology Imaging (ARI) includes MRI, MRA, CAT Scan, PET Scan, etc.
Note: All lab and x-ray services, including ARI, provided at Inpatient Hospital are covered under Inpatient Hospital benefit
Emergency Room / Urgent Care Facility Outpatient Professional Services *Ambulance
Benefit
In-Network Out-of-Network In-Network Out-of-Network In-Network Out-of-Network
Emergency
Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 80% ^
Care
Urgent Care Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 80% ^ Not Applicable*
*Ambulance services used as non-emergency transportation (e.g., transportation from hospital back home) generally are not covered.
Inpatient Hospital and Other Health Care Facilities Outpatient Services
Benefit
In-Network Out-of-Network In-Network Out-of-Network
Hospice Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 60% ^ Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 60% ^
Bereavement
Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 60% ^ Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 60% ^
Counseling
Note: Services provided as part of Hospice Care Program
Global Maternity Fee
Office Visits in Addition to Delivery - Facility
Initial Visit to Confirm (All Subsequent Prenatal Visits,
Global Maternity Fee (Performed (Inpatient Hospital, Birthing
Pregnancy Postnatal Visits and Physician's
Benefit by OB/GYN or Specialist) Center)
Delivery Charges)
Out-of- Out-of- Out-of- Out-of-
In-Network In-Network In-Network In-Network
Network Network Network Network
Covered same Covered same Covered same Covered same Covered same Covered same
as plan's as plan's Plan pays 80% Plan pays 60% as plan's as plan's as plan's as plan's
Maternity
Physician’s Physician’s ^ ^ Physician’s Physician’s Inpatient Inpatient
Office Services Office Services Office Services Office Services Hospital benefit Hospital benefit
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 6 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Inpatient Professional Outpatient Professional
Physician's Office Inpatient Facility Outpatient Facility
Services Services
Benefit
Out-of- Out-of- Out-of- Out-of- Out-of-
In-Network In-Network In-Network In-Network In-Network
Network Network Network Network Network
Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered
Abortion same as same as same as same as same as same as
(Elective and plan's plan's Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays plan's plan's plan's plan's
non-elective Physician’s Physician’s 80% ^ 60% ^ 80% ^ 60% ^ Inpatient Inpatient Outpatient Outpatient
procedures) Office Office Professional Professional Professional Professional
Services Services Services Services Services Services
 In-network non-elective procedures will be paid at 100% after plan deductible has been met.
Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered
Family same as same as same as same as same as same as
Planning - plan's plan's Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays plan's plan's plan's plan's
Men's Physician’s Physician’s 80% ^ 60% ^ 80% ^ 60% ^ Inpatient Inpatient Outpatient Outpatient
Services Office Office Professional Professional Professional Professional
Services Services Services Services Services Services
Includes surgical services, such as vasectomy (excludes reversals)
Family
Planning - Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays
Women's 100% 70% ^ 100% 70% ^ 100% 70% ^ 100% 70% ^ 100% 70% ^
Services
Includes surgical services, such as tubal ligation (excludes reversals)
Contraceptive devices as ordered or prescribed by a physician.
Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered
same as same as same as same as same as same as
plan's plan's Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays plan's plan's plan's plan's
Infertility
Physician’s Physician’s 80% ^ 60% ^ 80% ^ 60% ^ Inpatient Inpatient Outpatient Outpatient
Office Office Professional Professional Professional Professional
Services Services Services Services Services Services
Infertility covered services: lab and radiology test, counseling, surgical treatment, includes artificial insemination, in-vitro fertilization, GIFT, ZIFT, etc.
Unlimited maximum per lifetime
Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered
same as same as same as same as same as same as
TMJ, Surgical
plan's plan's Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays Plan pays plan's plan's plan's plan's
and Non-
Physician’s Physician’s 80% ^ 60% ^ 80% ^ 60% ^ Inpatient Inpatient Outpatient Outpatient
Surgical
Office Office Professional Professional Professional Professional
Services Services Services Services Services Services
Services provided on a case-by-case basis. Always excludes appliances & orthodontic treatment. Subject to medical necessity.
Unlimited maximum per lifetime
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 7 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Inpatient Hospital Facility Inpatient Professional Services
Cigna LifeSOURCE Cigna LifeSOURCE
Non-Lifesource Non-Lifesource
Benefit Transplant Transplant
Facility Out-of-Network Facility Out-of-Network
Network ® Facility Network ® Facility
In-Network In-Network
In-Network In-Network
Covered same as
Organ
Plan pays 100% ^ Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 70% ^ Plan pays 100% ^ plan's Inpatient Plan pays 70% ^
Transplants
Professional Services
 Travel Lifetime Maximum - Cigna LifeSOURCE Transplant Network® Facility: In-Network: $10,000 maximum per Transplant per Lifetime
Inpatient Outpatient - Physician's Office Outpatient – All Other Services
Benefit
In-Network Out-of-Network In-Network Out-of-Network In-Network Out-of-Network
Mental Health Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 60% ^ Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 60% ^ Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 60% ^
Substance Use
Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 60% ^ Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 60% ^ Plan pays 80% ^ Plan pays 60% ^
Disorder
Note: Services where plan deductible applies are noted with a caret (^).
Notes:
 Unlimited maximum per Calendar Year
 Services are paid at 100% after you reach your out-of-pocket maximum.
 Inpatient includes Residential Treatment.
 Outpatient includes Individual, Intensive Outpatient, Behavioral Telehealth Consultation, and Group Therapy; also Partial Hospitalization.
 Detox is covered under medical.
Mental Health and Substance Use Disorder Services
Mental Health/Substance Use Disorder Utilization Review, Case Management and Programs
Cigna Total Behavioral Health - Inpatient and Outpatient Management
 Inpatient utilization review and case management
 Outpatient utilization review and case management
 Partial Hospitalization
 Intensive outpatient programs
 Changing Lives by Integrating Mind and Body Program
 Lifestyle Management Programs: Stress Management, Tobacco Cessation and Weight Management.
 Narcotic Therapy Management
 Complex Psychiatric Case Management
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 8 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Pharmacy In-Network
Cost Share and Supply
Cigna Pharmacy Cost Share Retail (per 30-day supply):
 Retail – up to 30-day supply Generic: You pay $10
 Home Delivery – up to 90-day supply Preferred Brand: You pay $25
Non-Preferred Brand: You pay $50
Home Delivery (per 90-day supply):
Generic: You pay $37
Preferred Brand: You pay $62
Non-Preferred Brand: You pay $125
 Retail drugs may be obtained In-Network at a wide range of pharmacies across the nation.
 This plan will not cover out-of-network pharmacy benefits.
 Specialty medications are used to treat an underlying disease which is considered to be rare and chronic including, but not limited to, multiple sclerosis,
hepatitis C or rheumatoid arthritis. Specialty Drugs may include high cost medications as well as medications that may require special handling and close
supervision when being administered.
 When patient requests brand drug, patient pays the generic cost share plus the cost difference between the brand and generic drugs up to the cost of the
brand drug (unless the physician indicates "Dispense As Written" DAW).
 Your pharmacy benefits share an annual deductible and out-of-pocket maximum with the medical/behavioral benefits. The applicable cost share for covered
drugs applies after the combined deductible has been met.
Drugs Covered
Prescription Drug List:
Your Cigna Standard Prescription Drug List includes a full range of drugs including all those required under applicable health care laws. To check which drugs are
included in your plan, please log on to myCigna.com.
Some highlights:
 Self Administered injectables are covered.
 Contraceptive devices and drugs are covered with federally required products covered at 100%.
 Insulin, glucose test strips, lancets, insulin needles & syringes, insulin pens and cartridges are covered.
 Oral Fertility drugs are covered.
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 9 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Pharmacy Program Information
Pharmacy Clinical Management: Essential
Your plan features drug management programs and edits to ensure safe prescribing, and access to medications proven to be the most reliable and cost effective for
the medical condition, including:
 Prior authorization requirements.
 Step Therapy on select classes of medications and drugs new to the market
 Quantity limits, including maximum daily dose edits, quantity over time edits, duration of therapy edits, and dose optimization edits
 Age edits, and refill-too-soon edits
 Plan exclusion edits
 Current users of Step Therapy medications will be allowed one 30-day fill during the first three months of coverage before Step Therapy program applies.
 Your plan includes Specialty Drug Management features, such as prior authorization and quantity limits, to ensure the safe prescribing and access to
specialty medications.
 For customers with complex conditions taking a specialty medication, we will offer Accredo Therapeutic Resource Centers (TRCs) to provide specialty
medication and condition counseling. For customers taking a specialty medication not dispensed by Accredo, Cigna experts will offer this important specialty
medication and condition counseling.
Additional Information
Case Management
Coordinated by Cigna HealthCare. This is a service designated to provide assistance to a patient who is at risk of developing medical complexities or for whom a
health incident has precipitated a need for rehabilitation or additional health care support. The program strives to attain a balance between quality and cost effective
care while maximizing the patient's quality of life.
Cigna Diabetes Prevention Program in collaboration with Omada
Cigna Diabetes Prevention Program in collaboration with Omada is a program to help you avoid the onset of diabetes, as well as health risks that might lead to heart
disease or a stroke. The program is covered by your health plan at the preventive level, just like for your wellness visit. Program participants have access to a
professional virtual health coach, an online support group, interactive lessons, and a smart-technology scale. The program will help you make small changes in your
eating, activity, sleep, and stress to achieve healthy weight loss through a series of 16 weekly lessons and tools to help you maintain weight loss over time. You will
also be offered the opportunity to join a gym for a low monthly fee and no enrollment fee.
Comprehensive Oncology Program
 Care Management outreach Included
 Case Management
Health Advisor - A
Support for healthy and at-risk individuals to help them stay healthy
 Health Assessments
Included
 Health and Wellness Coaching
 Gaps in Care Coaching
 Treatment Decision Support
 Educate and Refer
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 10 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Additional Information
Healthy Pregnancies/Healthy Babies
 Care Management outreach
$150 (1st trimester) / $75 (2nd trimester)
 Maternity Case Management
 Neo-natal Case Management
Maximum Reimbursable Charge
The allowable covered expense for non-network services is based on the lesser of the health care professional's normal charge for a similar service or a percentage
of a fee schedule (300%) developed by Cigna that is based on a methodology similar to one used by Medicare to determine the allowable fee for the same or similar
service in a geographic area. In some cases, the Medicare based fee schedule will not be used and the maximum reimbursable charge for covered services is based
on the lesser of the health care professional's normal charge for a similar service or a percentile (80th) of charges made by health care professionals of such service
or supply in the geographic area where it is received. If sufficient charge data is unavailable in the database for that geographic area to determine the Maximum
Reimbursable Charge, then data in the database for similar services may be used. Out-of-network services are subject to a Calendar Year deductible and maximum
reimbursable charge limitations.
Out-of-Network Emergency Services Charges
1. Emergency Services are covered at the In-Network cost-sharing level if services are received from a non-participating (Out-of-Network) provider.
2. The allowable amount used to determine the Plan's benefit payment for covered Emergency Services rendered in an Out-of-Network Hospital, or by an Out-of-
Network provider in an In-Network Hospital, is the amount agreed to by the Out-of-Network provider and Cigna, or if no amount is agreed to, the greater of the
following: (i) the median amount negotiated with In-Network providers for the Emergency Service, excluding any In-Network copay or coinsurance; (ii) the Maximum
Reimbursable Charge; or (iii) the amount payable under the Medicare program, not to exceed the provider's billed charges.
The member is responsible for applicable In-Network cost-sharing amounts (any deductible, copay or coinsurance). The member is also responsible for all charges
that may be made in excess of the allowable amount. If the Out-of-Network provider bills you for an amount higher than the amount you owe as indicated on the
Explanation of Benefits (EOB), contact Cigna Customer Service at the phone number on your ID card.
Medicare Coordination
In accordance with the Social Security Act of 1965, this plan will pay as the Secondary plan to Medicare Part A and B as follows:
(a) a former Employee such as a retiree, a former Disabled Employee, a former Employee's Dependent, or an Employee's Domestic Partner who is also eligible for
Medicare and whose insurance is continued for any reason as provided in this plan (including COBRA continuation);
(b) an Employee, a former Employee, an Employee’s Dependent, or former Employee’s Dependent, who is eligible for Medicare due to End Stage Renal Disease
after that person has been eligible for Medicare for 30 months.
When a person is eligible for Medicare A and B as described above, this plan will pay as the Secondary Plan to Medicare Part A and B regardless if the person is
actually enrolled in Medicare Part A and/or Part B and regardless if the person seeks care at a Medicare Provider or not for Medicare covered services.
Multiple Surgical Reduction
Multiple surgeries performed during one operating session result in payment reduction of 50% to the surgery of lesser charge. The most expensive procedure is paid
as any other surgery.
One Guide
Available by phone or through myCigna mobile application. One Guide helps you navigate the health care system and make the most of your health benefits and
programs.
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 11 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Additional Information
Pre-Certification - Continued Stay Review - Preferred Care Management Inpatient - required for all inpatient admissions
In-Network: Coordinated by your physician
Out-of-Network: Customer is responsible for contacting Cigna Healthcare. Subject to penalty/reduction or denial for non-compliance.
 The lesser of 50% or $500 penalty applied to hospital inpatient charges for failure to contact Cigna Healthcare to precertify admission.
 Benefits are denied for any admission reviewed by Cigna Healthcare and not certified.
 Benefits are denied for any additional days not certified by Cigna Healthcare.
Pre-Certification - Preferred Care Management Outpatient Prior Authorization - required for selected outpatient procedures and diagnostic testing
In-Network: Coordinated by your physician
Out-of-Network: Customer is responsible for contacting Cigna Healthcare. Subject to penalty/reduction or denial for non-compliance.
 The lesser of 50% or $500 penalty applied to outpatient procedures/diagnostic testing charges for failure to contact Cigna Healthcare and to precertify
admission.
 Benefits are denied for any outpatient procedures/diagnostic testing reviewed by Cigna Healthcare and not certified.
Pre-Existing Condition Limitation (PCL) does not apply.
Holistic health support for the following chronic health conditions:
 Heart Disease
 Coronary Artery Disease
Your Health First - 300  Angina
Individuals with one or more of the chronic conditions, identified on the right, may  Congestive Heart Failure
be eligible to receive the following type of support:  Acute Myocardial Infarction
 Peripheral Arterial Disease
 Condition Management  Asthma
 Medication adherence  Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (Emphysema and Chronic
 Risk factor management Bronchitis)
 Lifestyle issues  Diabetes Type 1
 Health & Wellness issues  Diabetes Type 2
 Pre/post-admission  Metabolic Syndrome/Weight Complications
 Treatment decision support  Osteoarthritis
 Gaps in care  Low Back Pain
 Anxiety
 Bipolar Disorder
 Depression
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 12 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Definitions
Coinsurance - After you've reached your deductible, you and your plan share some of your medical costs. The portion of covered expenses you are responsible for
is called Coinsurance.
Copay - A flat fee you pay for certain covered services such as doctor's visits or prescriptions.
Deductible - A flat dollar amount you must pay out of your own pocket before your plan begins to pay for covered services.
Out-of-Pocket Maximum - Specific limits for the total amount you will pay out of your own pocket before your plan coinsurance percentage no longer applies. Once
you meet these maximums, your plan then pays 100 percent of the "Maximum Reimbursable Charges" or negotiated fees for covered services.
Place of Service - Your plan pays based on where you receive services. For example, for hospital stays, your coverage is paid at the inpatient level.
Prescription Drug List - The list of prescription brand and generic drugs covered by your pharmacy plan.
Professional Services - Services performed by Surgeons, Assistant Surgeons, Hospital Based Physicians, Radiologists, Pathologists and Anesthesiologists
Transition of Care - Provides in-network health coverage to new customers when the customer's doctor is not part of the Cigna network and there are approved
clinical reasons why the customer should continue to see the same doctor.
Exclusions
Exclusions and Expenses Not Covered
Additional coverage limitations determined by plan or provider type are shown in the Schedule. Payment for the following is specifically excluded from
this plan:
 Treatment of an Injury or Sickness which is due to war, declared, or undeclared.
 Cosmetic surgery, except that cosmetic surgery shall not include reconstructive surgery when such service is incidental to or follows surgery resulting from
trauma, infection or other diseases of the involved part, and reconstructive surgery because of congenital disease or anomaly of a covered Dependent child
which has resulted in functional defect.
 Foot care in connection with corns, calluses, flat feet, fallen arches, weak feet, chronic foot strain or symptomatic complaints of the feet.
 Treatment provided in a government hospital.
 Benefits provided under Medicare or other governmental program (except Medicaid), any State or Federal workers' compensation, employers' liability or
occupational disease law.
 Services rendered and separately billed by employees of hospitals, laboratories or other institutions.
 Services performed by a member of the covered person's immediate family.
 Dental care or treatment, except for such care or treatment due to accidental injury to sound natural teeth within 12 months of the accident and except for
dental care or treatment necessary due to congenital disease or anomaly.
 Hearing aids.
 Eyeglasses and examination for the prescription or fitting thereof.
 Rest cures and custodial care.
 Expenses incurred outside the United States, its possessions or the countries of Canada and Mexico, other than expenses for Medically Necessary urgent or
emergent Care while temporarily traveling abroad.
Exclusions and Expenses Not Covered Unless Medically Necessary
Additional coverage limitations determined by plan or provider type are shown in the Schedule. Payment for the following is specifically excluded from
this plan:
 Cosmetic surgery and therapies. Cosmetic surgery or therapy is defined as surgery or therapy performed to improve or alter appearance or self-esteem or to
treat psychological symptomatology or psychosocial complaints related to one's appearance.
 Routine foot care, including the paring and removing of corns and calluses or trimming of nails. However, services associated with foot care for diabetes and
peripheral vascular disease are covered when Medically Necessary.
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 13 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Exclusions
 Hearing aids, including but not limited to semi-implantable hearing devices, audiant bone conductors and Bone Anchored Hearing Aids (BAHAs). A hearing
aid is any device that amplifies sound.
 Assistance in the activities of daily living, including but not limited to eating, bathing, dressing or other Custodial Services or self-care activities, homemaker
services and services primarily for rest, domiciliary or convalescent care.
 Dental implants for any condition.
 For or in connection with experimental, investigational or unproven services. However, Cigna will cover an experimental or investigational treatment approved
by an external appeal agent. If the external appeal agent approved coverage of an experimental or investigational treatment that is part of a clinical trial,
Cigna will only cover the costs of services required to provide treatment to you according to the design of the trial. Cigna shall not be responsible for the costs
of investigational drugs or devices, the costs of non-health care services, the costs of managing research, or the costs which would not be covered under this
plan for nonexperimental or noninvestigational treatments provided in such clinical trial.
 Experimental, investigational and unproven services are medical, surgical, diagnostic, psychiatric, substance use disorder or other health care technologies,
supplies, treatments, procedures, drug therapies or devices that are determined by the utilization review Physician to be:
o Not demonstrated, through existing peer-reviewed, evidence-based, scientific literature to be safe and effective for treating or diagnosing the
condition or sickness for which its use is proposed;
o Not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or other appropriate regulatory agency to be lawfully marketed for the proposed use;
o The subject of review or approval by an Institutional Review Board for the proposed use except as provided in the "Clinical Trials" section(s) of this
plan; or
o The subject of an ongoing phase I, II or III clinical trial, except for routine patient care costs related to qualified clinical trials as provided in the
"Clinical Trials" section(s) of this plan.
 Charges made for drugs and implanted/injected devices for contraception.
 Membership costs or fees associated with health clubs, weight loss programs and smoking cessation programs.
 Genetic screening or pre-implantations genetic screening. General population-based genetic screening is a testing method performed in the absence of any
symptoms or any significant, proven risk factors for genetically linked inheritable disease.
 Fees associated with the collection or donation of blood or blood products, except for autologous donation in anticipation of scheduled services where in the
utilization review Physician's opinion the likelihood of excess blood loss is such that transfusion is an expected adjunct to surgery.
Limitations of Coverage
No payment will be made for expenses incurred for you or any one of your Dependents:
 Medical treatment for a person age 65 or older, who is covered under this plan as a retiree, or their Dependent, when payment is denied by the Medicare
plan because treatment was received from a nonparticipating provider.
 Artificial aids including, but not limited to, corrective orthopedic shoes, arch supports, and elastic stockings.
 Routine refractions, eye exercises and surgical treatment for the correction of a refractive error, including radial keratotomy.
 Expenses denied by a Primary Plan because treatment was received from a nonparticipating provider.
 To the extent that you or any one of your Dependents is in any way paid or entitled to payment for those expenses by or through a public program, other than
Medicaid.
 To the extent that payment is unlawful where the person resides when the expenses are incurred.
 For charges which would not have been made if the person had no insurance.
 Expenses for supplies, care, treatment, or surgery that are not Medically Necessary, except as specified in any certification requirement shown in this plan.
 For medical and surgical services, initial and repeat, intended for the treatment or control of obesity including clinically severe (morbid) obesity,
including:medical and surgical services to alter appearance or physical changes that are the result of any surgery performed for the management of obesity
or clinically severe (morbid) obesity; and weight loss programs or treatments, whether prescribed or recommended by a Physician or under medical
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 14 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
Exclusions
supervision.
These are only the highlights
This summary outlines the highlights of your plan. For a complete list of both covered and not covered services, including benefits required by your state, see your
employer's insurance certificate, service agreement or summary plan description -- the official plan documents. If there are any differences between this summary
and the plan documents, the information in the plan documents takes precedence.
All Cigna products and services are provided exclusively by or through operating subsidiaries of Cigna Corporation, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance
Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Cigna Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health Management, Inc., and HMO or service company subsidiaries
of Cigna Health Corporation. The Cigna name, logo, and other Cigna marks are owned by Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc.
EHB State: NY
1/1/2020
NY
Choice Fund Health Savings Account (HSA) Open Access Plus - HSAC
Proclaim - 8478952 - V 15 15 of 15 ©Cigna 2019
DISCRIMINATION IS AGAINST THE LAW
Medical coverage
Cigna complies with applicable Federal civil rights laws and a grievance by sending an email to ACAGrievance@Cigna.com or by
does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national writing to the following address:
origin, age, disability, or sex. Cigna does not exclude people
Cigna
or treat them differently because of race, color, national
Nondiscrimination Complaint Coordinator
origin, age, disability, or sex.
PO Box 188016
Cigna: Chattanooga, TN 37422
• Provides free aids and services to people with If you need assistance filing a written grievance, please call
disabilities to communicate effectively with us, such as: the number on the back of your ID card or send an email to
– Qualified sign language interpreters ACAGrievance@Cigna.com. You can also file a civil rights
complaint with the U.S. Department of Health and Human
– Written information in other formats (large print,
Services, Office for Civil Rights electronically through the
audio, accessible electronic formats, other formats)
Office for Civil Rights Complaint Portal, available at
• Provides free language services to people whose
https://ocrportal.hhs.gov/ocr/portal/lobby.jsf, or by mail or phone at:
primary language is not English, such as:
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
– Qualified interpreters
200 Independence Avenue, SW
– Information written in other languages
Room 509F, HHH Building
If you need these services, contact customer service at
Washington, DC 20201
the toll-free number shown on your ID card, and ask a
1.800.368.1019, 800.537.7697 (TDD)
Customer Service Associate for assistance.
Complaint forms are available at
If you believe that Cigna has failed to provide these services
http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/office/file/index.html.
or discriminated in another way on the basis of race,
color, national origin, age, disability, or sex, you can file
All Cigna products and services are provided exclusively by or through operating subsidiaries of Cigna Corporation, including Cigna Health and Life
Insurance Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Cigna Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health Management, Inc., and HMO or service
company subsidiaries of Cigna Health Corporation and Cigna Dental Health, Inc. The Cigna name, logos, and other Cigna marks are owned by Cigna
Intellectual Property, Inc. ATTENTION: If you speak languages other than English, language assistance services, free of charge are available to you. For
current Cigna customers, call the number on the back of your ID card. Otherwise, call 1.800.244.6224 (TTY: Dial 711). ATENCIÓN: Si usted habla un idioma
que no sea inglés, tiene a su disposición servicios gratuitos de asistencia lingüística. Si es un cliente actual de Cigna, llame al número que figura en el
reverso de su tarjeta de identificación. Si no lo es, llame al 1.800.244.6224 (los usuarios de TTY deben llamar al 711).
896375a 05/17 © 2017 Cigna.
Proficiency of Language Assistance Services
English – ATTENTION: Language assistance services, free of French Creole – ATANSYON: Gen sèvis èd nan lang ki disponib gratis
charge, are available to you. For current Cigna customers, pou ou. Pou kliyan Cigna yo, rele nimewo ki dèyè kat ID ou. Sinon, rele
call the number on the back of your ID card. Otherwise, call nimewo 1.800.244.6224 (TTY: Rele 711).
1.800.244.6224 (TTY: Dial 711).
French – ATTENTION: Des services d’aide linguistique vous sont
Spanish – ATENCIÓN: Hay servicios de asistencia de idiomas, proposés gratuitement. Si vous êtes un client actuel de Cigna,
sin cargo, a su disposición. Si es un cliente actual de Cigna, veuillez appeler le numéro indiqué au verso de votre carte d’identité.
llame al número que figura en el reverso de su tarjeta de Sinon, veuillez appeler le numéro 1.800.244.6224 (ATS : composez le
identificación. Si no lo es, llame al 1.800.244.6224 (los usuarios numéro 711).
de TTY deben llamar al 711).
Portuguese – ATENÇÃO: Tem ao seu dispor serviços de assistência
Chinese – 注意：我們可為您免費提供語言協助服務。對於 Cigna linguística, totalmente gratuitos. Para clientes Cigna atuais, ligue para o
的現有客戶，請致電您的 ID 卡背面的號碼。其他客戶請致電 número que se encontra no verso do seu cartão de identificação. Caso
1.800.244.6224 （聽障專線：請撥 711）。 contrário, ligue para 1.800.244.6224 (Dispositivos TTY: marque 711).
Vietnamese – XIN LƯU Ý: Quý vị được cấp dịch vụ trợ giúp về Polish – UWAGA: w celu skorzystania z dostępnej, bezpłatnej pomocy
ngôn ngữ miễn phí. Dành cho khách hàng hiện tại của Cigna, vui językowej, obecni klienci firmy Cigna mogą dzwonić pod numer podany
lòng gọi số ở mặt sau thẻ Hội viên. Các trường hợp khác xin gọi số na odwrocie karty identyfikacyjnej. Wszystkie inne osoby prosimy o
1.800.244.6224 (TTY: Quay số 711). skorzystanie z numeru 1 800 244 6224 (TTY: wybierz 711).
Korean – 주의: 한국어를 사용하시는 경우, 언어 지원 서비스를 Japanese – 注意事項：日本語を話される場合、無料の言語支援サービスをご利
무료로 이용하실 수 있습니다. 현재 Cigna 가입자님들께서는 ID 用いただけます。現在のCignaのお客様は、IDカード裏面の電話番号まで、お電
카드 뒷면에 있는 전화번호로 연락해주십시오. 기타 다른 경우에는 話にてご連絡ください。その他の方は、1.800.244.6224（TTY: 711）
1.800.244.6224 (TTY: 다이얼 711)번으로 전화해주십시오. まで、お電話にてご連絡ください。
Tagalog – PAUNAWA: Makakakuha ka ng mga serbisyo sa Italian – ATTENZIONE: Sono disponibili servizi di assistenza linguistica
tulong sa wika nang libre. Para sa mga kasalukuyang customer gratuiti. Per i clienti Cigna attuali, chiamare il numero sul retro della
ng Cigna, tawagan ang numero sa likuran ng iyong ID card. tessera di identificazione. In caso contrario, chiamare il numero
O kaya, tumawag sa 1.800.244.6224 (TTY: I-dial ang 711). 1.800.244.6224 (utenti TTY: chiamare il numero 711).
Russian – ВНИМАНИЕ: вам могут предоставить бесплатные German – ACHTUNG: Die Leistungen der Sprachunterstützung
stehen Ihnen kostenlos zur Verfügung. Wenn Sie gegenwärtiger
услуги перевода. Если вы уже участвуете в плане Cigna,
Cigna-Kunde sind, rufen Sie bitte die Nummer auf der Rückseite Ihrer
позвоните по номеру, указанному на обратной стороне
Krankenversicherungskarte an. Andernfalls rufen Sie 1.800.244.6224 an
вашей идентификационной карточки участника плана.
(TTY: Wählen Sie 711).
Если вы не являетесь участником одного из наших
планов, позвоните по номеру 1.800.244.6224 (TTY: 711). یارب .دوش یم هئارا امش هب ناگيار تروص هب ٬ینابز کمک تامدخ :هجوت – Persian (Farsi)
ريغ رد .ديريگب سامت تسامش یياسانش تراک تشپ رد هک یا هرامش اب ًافطل ٬Cigna یلعف نايرتشم
Cigna ءلامعل .مكل ةحاتم ةيناجملا ةمجرتلا تامدخ هابتنلاا ءاجرب – Arabic
ار 711 هرامش :ناياونشان هژيو نفلت هرامش) ديريگب سامت 1.800.244.6224 هرامش اب تروصنيا
ب لصتا وا .ةيصخشلا مكتقاطب رهظ يلع نودملا مقرلاب لاصتلاا ءاجرب نييلاحلا
.(دينک یريگ هرامش
.(711 ب لصتا :TTY) 1.800.244.6224
896375a 05/17